I want you to envision the architecture of an app you've worked on recently.
Now envision all of the state of that application.
Where did that state live?
Odds are, it was sprinkled throughout the entire app.
This isn't necessarily a bad thing,
but I want to propose another approach.
Remember, the goal of this course is learn how to make your state more predictable.
What would make our state more predictable than
having it sprinkled throughout our entire app.
What if it was all in one place?
All of our state for application in a single location.
Now what hard benefits would that actually give us?
Well, to start it would improve sharing state amongst different parts of our application.
Typically, when two parts of your app rely on the same piece of data,
if they each have their own copy of that data,
you have to do a lot of tricky work to make sure that they stay in sync.
This is a pain point almost all of us have probably felt at one point.
You've changed your avatar under your profile then make a new post,
only to find out that your old Avatar was used for that new post.
If all of our state is in one location,
you avoid this problem entirely,
because each section of your app that needs it,
will just reference the data from the one location rather than duplicating it.
Another benefit and really the most important benefit we
care about is more predictable state changes.
If all of our state is in one location,
we can set strict rules for how to update that state leading to a more predictable state.
Now, let's give this concept of putting all of our state in a single location a name.
Let's call it the state tree.